Cyberpunk 2077's first-person perspective forces a disorienting attention to both the playing and virtual body. The player follows player character V's deterioration of mind and body as the alien personality of Johnny Silverhand slowly takes over, transforming V's relationship to themself and the world of Night City as they lose more and more of their sense of self and individual subjectivity. However Cyberpunk 2077 ends, V and Silverhand are difficult to separate. This narrative's successes, I argue, are in part possible because of Cyberpunk 2077's attention to V's body and processing of visual feedback early on. The third main mission, "The Ripperdoc," not only functions as a tutorial for the cyberware system but also draws attention to the missing and available pieces of V's personal history and to the people who might know them and their body best. This sets the stage for a tragic return at the climax of the game, where Ripperdoc Viktor Vektor's clinic becomes both a refuge and a site of grief for a destroyed sense of self.

This presentation analyzes "The Ripperdoc", connecting it to prior tutorial missions and the branching decision of the climax, alongside the game's larger theme of subjective loss. "The Ripperdoc" has V visit friend and doctor, Viktor Vektor, to both cure themself of a virus and to upgrade their cyberware-cybernetic enhancements to the fabric of their body. Cyberpunk's database tells the player that a "ripperdoc lies somewhere between a surgeon, techie and tattoo artist", drawing on familiar environments and encounters to both enhance the world building of Night City and the genre-appropriate tone of the encounter. V's body is broken into mechanical parts and items to be replaced, leaving the player disoriented even while V and Vik go through the process with comfortable banter. This process is vital for the player's understanding of cyberware as a major game mechanic, but the introduction to it through this scene not only helps the player understand the cyberpunk setting of the game but V's relationship to their parts, organic and otherwise. The first-person perspective places both V and the player in Vik's hands and in a moment that is only briefly confusing and shocking, Vik replaces V's optics--their eyes-with an expensive upgrade as a gift. 

Combined with V's chosen origin, "The Ripperdoc" sets the stage for a new familiar for the player as they enter Cyberpunk 2077's world and leaves tantalizing and tragic hints of who V might lose in themself as the game progresses. This is a V and a life before Johnny Silverhand, after all, and Vik's gift of their new optics is not the mechanical, roleplaying progression advancement that later cyberware upgrades will be. It is, instead, a gesture of care, and helps establish Vik's clinic as a place of safety and change for the rest of the game and for the finale branching decision. V is ultimately alienated from their history, from Night City, and from their body, with all roads leading back to the clinic.